readme.md, before:

## CJSON (Commented Javascript Object Notation) is a comments enabled json config loader. 

JSON has a good spec, is implemented in every language, has easy to read syntax and is much more powerfull then ini files.

JSON is perfect for writing config files, except of one problem - there is no comments, but sometimes config files get large and need to be commented.

Well, you could just evaluate json file as a javascript using one-liner, right?

The purpose of this module is to avoid dirty javascript configs and to enable clean, consistent, secure, portable and JSON valid notation.

CJSON supports javascript style comments: singleline "//" and  multiline "/**/". It takes care about comments inside of strings.

Example of such shiny config file:
	
	/*
	 * This is my app configuration file.
	 * 
	 */
	{
		"host": "localhost",
		// app is listening on this port
		"port": 8888
	}


## API

### load the module
	var cjson = require('cjson');

### cjson.load(path, [options]);

Load config file from given path, array of paths or directory. Second parameter is optional and can be a boolean or object.
 
- `path` {string} absolute path to the file
- `options` {boolean|Object} optional options 

`options` defaults:
	{
		merge: false,
		replace: null
	}

If you pass `true` as second param, its the same like `{merge: true}` and will merge all configs together.
`replace` allows you to do some string replacements, see `cjson.replace`.
 
Examples:
	
	// just one config 
	var conf = cjson.load('/path/to/your/config.json');

	// array of configs 
	var conf = cjson.load(['/path/to/your/config1.json', '/path/to/your/config2.json']);
	
	//output
	{
		config1: {key1: 'value1'}
		config2: {key2: 'value2'}
	}
	
	
	// use optional merge parameter
	// array of configs 
	var conf = cjson.load(['/path/to/your/config1.json', '/path/to/your/config2.json'], true);
	
	// output
	{
		key1: 'value1',
		key2: 'value2'
	}
	
	
	// load all config files from a directory
	var conf = cjson.load('/path/to/your/configs');
	
	// overwriting dev config with production
	var paths = ['/path/to/conf.json'];
	if (process.env.NODE_ENV ==='production') {
		paths.push('/path/to/conf-prod.json');
	}
	var conf = cjson.load(paths, true);

### cjson.extend([deep], target, object1, [objectN])

Merge the contents of two or more objects together into the first object. 

- `deep` If true, the merge becomes recursive.
- `target` The object to extend. It will receive the new properties.
- `object1` An object containing additional properties to merge in.
- `objectN` Additional objects containing properties to merge in.

Example:

	var object = $.extend({}, object1, object2);

### cjson.decomment(str)

Remove javascript style comments, singleline - '//' and multiline - '/**/'. It takes care 
about comments inside of strings and escaping.

### cjson.parse(str, [reviver])

Like `JSON.parse`, but it takes care about comments. Optional `reviver` argument 
is for `JSON.parse` method and will be called for every key and value at every level 
of the final result

### cjson.replace(str, obj)

Replace all strings `{{key}}` contained in `{key: 'value'}`, where `key` can be any 
property of passed `obj`.

Example:
	var str = '{"path": "{{root}}/src"}'; // json file contents
	cjson.replace(str, {root: '/usr'}); // '{"path": "/usr/src"}'  
	
## Installation

	npm install cjson

Commit message:

add an option.extension to include files with a different extension than .json

readme.md, after:

## CJSON (Commented Javascript Object Notation) is a comments enabled json config loader. 

JSON has a good spec, is implemented in every language, has easy to read syntax and is much more powerfull then ini files.

JSON is perfect for writing config files, except of one problem - there is no comments, but sometimes config files get large and need to be commented.

Well, you could just evaluate json file as a javascript using one-liner, right?

The purpose of this module is to avoid dirty javascript configs and to enable clean, consistent, secure, portable and JSON valid notation.

CJSON supports javascript style comments: singleline "//" and  multiline "/**/". It takes care about comments inside of strings.

Example of such shiny config file:
	
	/*
	 * This is my app configuration file.
	 * 
	 */
	{
		"host": "localhost",
		// app is listening on this port
		"port": 8888
	}


## API

### load the module
	var cjson = require('cjson');

### cjson.load(path, [options]);

Load config file from given path, array of paths or directory. Second parameter is optional and can be a boolean or object.
 
- `path` 
  - {string} absolute path to the file
  - {string} absolute path of the folder containing the files
  - {array} list of files
- `path` {string} absolute path to the file
- `options` {boolean|Object} optional options 

`options` defaults:
	{
		merge: false,
		replace: null
    extension: '.json'
	}

If you pass `true` as second param, its the same like `{merge: true}` and will merge all configs together.
`replace` allows you to do some string replacements, see `cjson.replace`.

if the extension if set, only include the files with this extension. {"extension":""} to get all the files in the folder

Examples:
	
	// just one config 
	var conf = cjson.load('/path/to/your/config.json');

	// array of configs 
	var conf = cjson.load(['/path/to/your/config1.json', '/path/to/your/config2.json']);
	
	//output
	{
		config1: {key1: 'value1'}
		config2: {key2: 'value2'}
	}
	
	
	// use optional merge parameter
	// array of configs 
	var conf = cjson.load(['/path/to/your/config1.json', '/path/to/your/config2.json'], true);
	
	// output
	{
		key1: 'value1',
		key2: 'value2'
	}
	
	
	// load all config files from a directory
	var conf = cjson.load('/path/to/your/configs');
	
	// overwriting dev config with production
	var paths = ['/path/to/conf.json'];
	if (process.env.NODE_ENV ==='production') {
		paths.push('/path/to/conf-prod.json');
	}
	var conf = cjson.load(paths, true);

### cjson.extend([deep], target, object1, [objectN])

Merge the contents of two or more objects together into the first object. 

- `deep` If true, the merge becomes recursive.
- `target` The object to extend. It will receive the new properties.
- `object1` An object containing additional properties to merge in.
- `objectN` Additional objects containing properties to merge in.

Example:

	var object = $.extend({}, object1, object2);

### cjson.decomment(str)

Remove javascript style comments, singleline - '//' and multiline - '/**/'. It takes care 
about comments inside of strings and escaping.

### cjson.parse(str, [reviver])

Like `JSON.parse`, but it takes care about comments. Optional `reviver` argument 
is for `JSON.parse` method and will be called for every key and value at every level 
of the final result

### cjson.replace(str, obj)

Replace all strings `{{key}}` contained in `{key: 'value'}`, where `key` can be any 
property of passed `obj`.

Example:
	var str = '{"path": "{{root}}/src"}'; // json file contents
	cjson.replace(str, {root: '/usr'}); // '{"path": "/usr/src"}'  
	
## Installation

	npm install cjson
